From Bronze age to the Digital age
	Blacksmithing is a school of metalworking that specifically refers to working with wrought iron and steel. When metalsmithing was first developed, rendering raw ores straight from rocks, our ancestors used the new materials to make simple tools and weapons to make their lives easier. Today, artisans craft amazing scupltures, ferriers provide horses with custom footware, and many things are still made in the same or a similar way that they've been made for ages. While techniques, tools, and materials may have changed the reason to blacksmith today is the exact same as it was the first time someone tried it: turning some metal shape into another metal shape.  Blacksmithing has been the cornerstone of civilization for thousands of years and continues to be practiced by smiths around the world. 
 
 Flat Jaw Tongs
	The flat jaws are the most simple form a set of tongs can be. Able to grab any piece of material with a large enough flat surface, this is one of the first set of tongs most smiths make.

Square Jaw Tongs
	Square jaw tongs are crafted to be able to grab angular pieces. Set to a specific size, it's not uncommon to have multiple sets for different size stock.

Scroll Jaw Tongs
	A scroll is another term for a curl. When crafting a smooth twist, more precise jaws are required to minimize deformation. In addition, the smaller profile helps prevent leaving tool marks. 

Bolt Jaw Tongs
	Named for the wide open area close to the pivot point, these tongs allow for a straight piece attached to a bulkier piece to be held securely with the 'head' in-between the jaws.

Railroad Tie Tongs
	Another style named for the intended working material, Railroad Tie tongs are similar to Bolt Jaws. Instead of holding below the head however, these tongs are slotted to firmly grab on top and around it.

Hot Cut Chisel
	A sharpened tool that slots into the Hardy Hole, using the mass of the anvil as a backstop. Intended to cut hot material by placing it on top of the cut and hammering the material against it.

Hand Chisel
	Similar to the hot cut chisel, this cutting tool is designed to be held in the smith's hand. A peice of material is affixed to the anvil, and the smith hammers the chisel into the material.



